# SortManager
This is my Java Core project

An application that manages different type of sorting algorithms.

# Project Overview
Sort Manager implements 6 different type of sort algorithms, which all sort an array of integers into ascending order.

These algorithms, and other features of the application, are tested against various test cases to ensure they are reliable and working.

### Sorting Algorithms
The algorithms included are:
* Binary Tree Sorter  - Creates a binary tree and recursively searches through it to sort the given array.
* Bubble Sorter       - Sorts the given array by comparing each element to the next and swapping them until every element is in order.
* Insertion Sorter    - Places unsorted elements at the correct place in the sorted array.
* Merge Sorter        - Splits the array in half until each subarray is one element, then recursively merges each subarray back into one in the correct order.
* Quick Sorter        - Partitions the array around a chosen pivot point, and then puts all elements lower than the pivot point before it, and all elements larger after it. Another 
                        pivot is chosen and the process repeats until the array is sorted.
* Selection Sorter    - Sorts by selecting the smallest element in the unsorted array and putting it at the end of the sorted array. This is repeated until the array is sorted.

### Application Walkthrough
Sort Manager includes a console UI. Upon launching the application, the user is prompted to enter commands to control it.
The user can choose the sorting algorithm to be used, and the size of the array to sort.
After inputting these parameters, a random array of the size specified is generated by the application.
The chosen sorting algorithm then sorts the array.
The unsorted and sorted arrays are then displayed, along with the time taken to sort in nanoseconds.

# How to run
Please run the starter file in the Starter Package using the IDE of your choice
